# Chatper One## Notes### Supervised  / Unsupervised Learning#### Supervised LearningThe training data had "labels" that are the desired solution for that piece of data.Supervised learning algorithms:- k-Nearest Neighbors- Linear Regression- Logistic Regressions- Support Vector Machines (SVM)- Decision Trees- Random Forests- Neural Networks#### Unsupervised LearningThe data is "unlabeled" so the algorithm must learn without being told what the data represents.Unsupervised learning algorithms:- Clustering    - k-Means    - Hierarchical Cluster Analysis (HCA)    - Expectation Maximisation- Visualisation and dimensionality reduction    - Principle Component Analysis (PCA)    - Kernel PCA    - Locally-Linear Embedding (LLE)    - t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbour Embedding (t-SNE)- Association rule learning    - Apriori    - Eclat    Dimensional Reduction is a way to reduce the size of the data without losing too much information. For example if you have features that are correlated you might be able to merge them into one. For example if you have a feature for the age of a car you could merge it with a feature that represents the mileage of a car. This exercise is called feature extraction.Anomaly detection is where you detect unusual data that could be removed from the data set. An unsupervised learning algorithm could be build to identify normal data and abnormal data.Association rule learning is where you can dig into your data and find correlations between attributes. For example you might run a supermarket and want to find out what similar groups of customers purchases so you can organised the physical location of those items in your shop so they are close to each other.#### Semisupervised LearningThe training data is partially labelled. Most semisupervised learning algorithms are combinations of supervised and unsupervised algorithms.#### Reinforcement LearningThe system can observe the environment, take actions based on the state of the environment and get rewards. It must learn by itself what is the best policy to get the biggest reward over time. The policy will define what action to take based on the current state of the environment.### Batch and Online LearningCan the algorithm learn from a stream of incoming data?#### Batch LearningThe system must be trained using all available data because it can not be trained incrementally. It will be trained offline and will take a lot of time and computing resources. This is also called offline learning. If there is new data available you will need to train a new system, using the new and old data. This new system will then need to be deployed to production.#### Online LearningYou train the system incrementally with smaller batches of data, known as mini-batches. Learning is fast and cheap. An important parameter of an online learning system is the learning rate. The learning rate is the how rapidly the system will adapt to new data. If you have a high learning rate it will forget older data quickly. If you have a low learning rate it will learn more slowly and be less sensitive to noise in the new data. An issue we have with online learning and not batch learning is if bad data is feed into the system the performance of the system will decline.### Instance-Based Versus Model-Based LearningGeneralisation is another way to categorise machine learning systems.#### Instance-Based LearningInstance-based learning is where a system learns the examples by heart, then generalises to new cases using a similarity measure.#### Model-based learningGeneralising by building a model and using this model to make predictions on new data.In order to evaluate your model you will need to define a performance measure so you know that it is performing well. You can define a utility function to measure how good the model is or a cost function to measure how poor the model is.### Feature Engineering#### Feature SelectionSelecting the most useful features to train on among existing features.#### Feature ExtractionCombining existing features to produce a more useful one.Creating new features by gathering new data.### OverfittingThis happens when the model is too complex relative to the amount and noisiness of the training data. This could be solved by:- Using a similar model    - Fewer parameters    - Reducing the number of attributes    - Constraining the model- Gather more data- Reduce noise in the data set    - Fix errors    - Remove outliers    ### RegularisationThis is a term used to describe constraining the model to make it simpler and to reduce the risk of overfitting.A hyperparameter is used to control the amount of regularisation applied during learning.### UnderfittingThis occurs when the model is too simple to learn the underlying structure of the data. This is solved by:- Using a more powerful model with more parameters- Selecting better features- Reducing the constraints on the model (reducing the hyperparameter)### Testing and ValidationSplit your data into two sets, one for training and the other for testing. It is typical to take 80% of the data to train and the remaining 20% to test.When you test against your testing set you will be able to observe the generalisation error. If this error is large compared to the training error then it is an indication that the model is overfitting the data.If you are in a situation where you wan tto experiment and try various different hyperparameter values you will also need to extract a validation set from your data. Otherwise you may be overfitting your choice of hyperparameter value to the test set.## Exercises1; How would you define machine learning?Machine learning and teaching a system to solve a particular problem without explicitly telling the system how to solve the problem.2; Can you name four types of problems where it shines?- Spam filter- Recommendation system- Self driving car- Speech recognition3; What is a labeled training set?A labeled training set is data which has already been classified. It is used for supervised learning algorithms.@TODO - finish the questions